i've been depriving myself of this for the last 63 days. all because i've been configuring linux, I'm not exaguurating when i say I've been thinking of linux almost every hour of the last 63 days, it got so bad that i was configuring linux in even in my dreams, i'm dead serious. i know its incredibly unhealthy but i have an obsessive personality which can be a double edged sword. All that configuring resulted in tippling to quatrippling my ram and storage, and i'm not just talking about using less ram, no no no no no, i'm talking abot actually being able to strore 3-4 times as much in your ram and also your storage. it blew my mind that this was even a possibility and that i hadn't heard of it. I'll be showing you exaclty how i did it, now you dont have to do what i did but it's freaking cool just knowing that this technology exists. I'll be sharing every last thing i've learned with you. So you don't have to spend all that time figuring it out. Even arch wiki doesn't tell you about it up front for some reason. 


so hear's a little back story 
I wanted to try out linux and see for myself if it was a serious windows replaceable OS, now the thing is i always liked windows as an OS until the release of windows 11, I hated using it because of how clunky and full of ads it is. And mac, well let's not even get into that.

My first 4 days of using linux mint were underwhelming, It was alright, everything worked fine but the ui looked like it was designed in prehistoric age. and it wouldn't click. so i went looking for an alternative yet again, and i found fedora, I loved it, it was not boring because it had a unique design choice with a modern ui and everything espcially because there was no minimize or maximize button  for panels and i liked it and i know there's an extention for it but i wanted to use it as it was created. so after using it for about 2 weeks i got tired of it as well. cuz it still didnt feel all that diffrent from what i was used to in windows.  i wanted something so good that it truly looked like a different OS. 
 and this is where Arch linux peaked my interest, i had heard it had a reputation for being notoriously challanging to install and I wanted to test my compitance. Now of course i could have gone the easy route and used the arch install script but i wanted to get a comprehensive understanding of each and every part of it, I think deep down i knew this was gonna be it so i speant 3 days researching every step of the arch install process, I didn't just want to copy paste commands cuz then i might as well have used the arch install script.
 
  This is where i made a decision that would consume every waking second of my life for the next 65 days. I gravely underestimated how truly difficult building your own operating OS would be, and because i'm a masocist, i went the manual installation route, mind you, i had barely learnt anything about linux from using mint and fedora, because those destoros are plug and play with everything preconfigured to just work. so anyways because i truly wanted to learn linux i read the entire arch wiki installation guide in excrutiating detail and took meticulas notes for the next two days. now arch wiki is not really adhd friendly, It's painfully boaring to read it, they overload you with information especially if you click all the hyprlinks like i did, it quickly turns into a rabbit hole., and i honestly the only thing that kept me going was the sunk cost fallocy, i didn't want to have wasted all my time and give up, so I pushed myself through it and came out the other end with a solid understanding of how linux worked. and then i also had to curate a list of pacakges i wanted, the process of searching for packages and realising how i had to download a package for literlly every single thing gave me a true appriciation for how modular linux is, there's absolutely zero stuff on my setup that i didn't intentionally put there. Everysingle thing is handpicked by me. which makes it so much personal. and it's not like there's one package for each thing, There's like 10 alternatives for each and evyrthign thing. for instance for network setup, you can choose from a list of all these things, and given that i like to know the difference between all of them and pick the best one for my needs, i had to research each and everything one by one, which took another 2 days. Honestly the whole process would have been such a pain in the rear end if it weren't for the conviniance of having my questions answered on a whim by chatgpt. 
i know we get used to things so fast but god damn what a truly magical thing it is. Obviously you can't trust everything it says and you have to double check and cross verify but the fact that something like this exists is truly insane. 
