running windows, macos, android, animations, smoothness, transparent tiles, wallpaper switching to the first frame of me talking and then continuing, montage. simple music. match-cut to the beat. 

I'm not gonna sugar coat it, getting here was extremely taxing on my mental health. Especially because i was adamant on setting it all up myself and not using a preconfigured setup. 

You don't learn by going the easy route. developing a skill demands blood, sweat time and your sanity.  (animate this part cuz it's still in the beginning of the video) i had to read books, break stuff only to figure out how to fix it, automate certain things by learning bash and creating bash scripts only for those scripts to not work and have chatgpt create them instead. It's been the steepest learning experience of my life. What i did is not for everyone, most people don't find it rewarding to spend a week troubleshooting high powerusage and maticulasly studying the power consuption of every component of a modern laptop. i did not enjoy that part.  but i did sucessfully manage to lower my idle power consumpton from 22 watts to 4.5 watts, Honestly, i think getting cancer and beating it, would have been far easier.  

I didn't know i was going to be spending so much time on just configuring a perfect setup, when i first thought about installing it, i thought it woudln't take more than 2 full days to configure a personilized setup, boy was i wrong. but the thing is the more time i spent on it, the more stimulating it got, and also i didn't not want to give up, that's not my personality. 

It's impossible to remember all that I've learned. there's so much and i started taking notes in regular text files. They looked so ugly and disorganized, it was impossible to find relevant information given how many notes i had, I was like there has to be a better way to take notes, and that's when i found out about obsidian and markdown language. it was like going from manually sifting through for the relevant info in a library.. to asking chatgpt and having it provide you with exactly what you need.
Obsidian has an incredible way of visualizing your notes, it shows you how they're inter connected, it it looks similar to neurons in the brain. btw just transferring my notes into obsidian alone took me 3 full days because of how many they were. 

now there might be people who wonder why i'd go through so much when i could have just used windows, after all, it just works right?? 

well let me show you something.. this is the exact same large language model running locally and completely offline on both windows and linux. look at that difference in speed. the windows is only able to generate .. words every second whiel linux is spitting out words like a machine gun.. I also tested the raw performance of the cpu using geekbench 6. Look at those scores!! that's a 20% improvment in total performance,  this is a generational bump in performance for the CPU on the same hardware. for context this is the score of a 3 year newer cpu on windows vs mine on linux. Windows eats up a lot of performance, The reason is Windows has a at least 200 services running on idle. and most of them are just telemetry and usage logging so microsoft can see what you're doing to supposidly "improve the user experience" and it's impossible to turn off, even if you have a custom iso that has all the telemetry logging ripped out of it, the only solution i've found so far is blocking all network traffic and manually adding exceptions for things you need like the browser and stuff. but that just prevents your data from going to microsoft, it doesn't prevent the generation of the data on your device. so the performance will always be bad. 

That was my primary reason, this was is a close second for why i switched. Your'e at the mercy of Microsoft to not make your device obsolete, When windows 10 launched, they said it was going to be the last version of Windows thereby implying it would be supported for a very long time. but here we are and Microsoft is going to categorically stop supporting windows 10 in October,  i have a 12th gen intel and my laptop more than qualifies for windows 11, infact it came with windows 11 out of the box, but the noticeable impact on performance was enough for me to downgrade to windows 10. 

here's another thing that'll blow your mind. the idle ram usage on windows 11 is 5.5 GB and it's only 800 Megs on Linux. it's because windows tries to do everything and not be good at any one thing while Linux's philosophy is do one thing and do it well, i never though we'd be here but even gaming is better on Linux even though it uses a translation layer as opposed to running natively like how is that even possible!! I know why because it's not constantly poking its nose into what your doing and sending it to the overlords at Microsoft.. with Linux you can pick and choose exactly what you want, you don't have to have every service running under the sun at all times with windows if you stop one service it breaks a complete unrelated feature that you need. So you're stuck with leaving it all enabled. 

Do you know how much storage windows uses out of the box? uses ... as opposed to a fully featured linux os?.. yeah.


looks absolutely nothing like what an OS from Apple or Microsoft will give you. LET LINUX BE LINUX AND LET IT LOOK LIKE THE RETRO FUTURE!


